we begin with the latest developments in
the Middle East and President Biden has
said the prospect of a ceasefire deal is
in Gaza is getting closer but is not
there yet it comes after the US Qatar
and Egypt put forward a new proposal for
a ceasefire and the release of the
remaining Israeli hostages Hamas
reportedly have rejected the new
conditions proposed at the talks in Doha
the three mediators issued a statement
on the second day of talks that
suggested that the new proposal closes
the remaining gaps The Talk have paused
but will resume next week earlier the
UK's foreign secretary David Lamy said
that he was told by Israeli ministers
that they hope they're on the cusp of a
deal over the war in Gaza he was
visiting Jerusalem with the French
foreign minister Stefan sour and Israel
announced that the US Secretary of State
Anthony blinkin and the Israeli Prime
Minister Benjamin Netanyahu are expected
to meet in person on Monday meanwhile
the UN has described a deadly attack by
Israeli settlers on a village in the
occupied West Bank as horrific the
settlers set cars and houses a blaze as
they descended on the village of jit
armed with batons rocks and Molotov
cocktails at least one Palestinian was
killed and others seriously injured
thousands gathered in jit for the
funeral of the man killed in the settler
attack David Lamy condemned the violence
as abhorent the scenes
overnight of the burning and the
torching of
buildings of the the molotov
cocktails thrown at
cars of the widespread
Rampage and chasing of people from their
homes is a Bor and I condemn it in the
strongest of terms the UN has recorded
hundreds of settler attacks since the
Hamas assault on Israel last October BBC
verifies Merlin Thomas has been looking
at video posted on social media of this
latest latest incident this was a scene
in the village of zet in the occupied
West Bank after a group of Israeli
settlers reportedly attacked various
properties and vehicles the Palestinian
Health Ministry has said that at least
one person has been killed we've been
investigating online footage of the
attack and its aftermath to try to piece
together what
happened the village is located here
just west of Nablus in the West Bank and
CCTV has emerged online showing a group
of individuals setting a car on fire
outside a house and the Tim stamp on
this footage shows 1949 which appears to
be consistent with what eyewitnesses
told the BBC of the attack taking place
just after Sunset which is around 1920
note also these distinctive arches here
which we use to verify other footage
like this clip here we see those same
arches and the arrangement of the nearby
buildings and roads confirm the location
of this house to be on the southern edge
of the village now on this CCTV footage
take note of the pillar here and the
empty baby walker cuz this V video shows
two men setting fire to another building
in the village we've confirmed this by
matching those details that I just
pointed out to you with verified image
of the aftermath note again the baby
walker here and the pillar there prime
minister netanyahu's office has
condemned the attack and said that those
responsible for any criminal act will be
caught and prosecuted let's speak now to
our correspondent Jenny Hill who's in
Tel Aviv and Jenny there have been quite
a few developments in the last few hours
if you could talk us through them uh
most of all in the last few minutes
we've just had a a statement from
President Biden saying that the Gaza Tru
deel is closer than we have ever been
but it's not there
yet yeah I think there are two key
takeaways here first of all reaching
that deal is going to take more time you
know these negotiations were dubbed the
last ditch Summit now mediators are
saying they're going to have to get
their technical teams to keep working
before officials resume their talks in
Cairo by the end of next week secondly
the US and the other mediators Qatar and
Egypt are determined to get this deal
past the post and that I think is why
we're seeing the US Secretary of State
blink due to visit the region in the
coming days due to hold talks with
Benjamin nanyu the Israeli Prime
Minister uh on Monday we've heard from
Hamas too um first of all the statement
that was released by negotiators today
said that a proposal had been put
forward which um built on recent points
of agreement and bridged remaining gaps
well Hamas a senior Hamas leader has
told the BBC that this does not include
a commitment to Implement what was
agreed upon early in July now Hamas had
not participated in this round of talks
because they protested um against what
they said was Israel's imposition of new
conditions on existing proposals they
said they were not prepared to enter new
negotiations so everything hangs
essentially in the air right now but the
negotiators who met in Doha know that
time is not on their side first of all
there's the human cost of this war just
yesterday the Hamas ran Health Ministry
in Gaza said that the number of dead was
now past 40,000 since the war broke out
in October and those negotiators know
that achieving a ceasefire and hostage
return deal is crucial if they're to
stop the conflict in Gaza from spilling
over into a wider allout Regional War
they're also painfully conscious that
Iran and its proxies including Hezbollah
have threatened to attack Israel is in
retaliation for the recent assassination
of hamas's political leader in tan um
Ismael hania it's hoped that while a
ceasefire and hostage deal remains a
prospect that attack could be mitigated
limited Iran might be persuaded not to
carry it out at all okay thanks very
much for now that's Jenny Hill for us
there in Tel Aviv let's speak now to
Laura Blumenfeld a Middle East analyst
and former senior policy adviser on the
state Department's Israel Palestinian
negotiating team thanks very much to you
uh for joining us and just seeing some
of the the quotes that are coming
through just in the last few minutes
just shows how complicated this is we've
got President Biden saying we're not
there yet but we are closer than we ever
been and I've Just Seen A uh Reuters
report saying quoting a Hamas official a
senior Hamas official speaking to
Reuters saying quoter saying the US
Administration is trying to create a
false atmosphere what is your an
analysis of of where these talks are at
at the
moment uh well if you're asking me for a
headline I would say the question is is
the US Qatari Egyptian bridging proposal
a bridge too far and you're right to be
concerned because as I learned working
at the state department under President
Obama on the Israeli Palestinian
negotiating team um the devil is in the
details um so we can that we can breathe
easy over the weekend I you know I hope
fingers crossed that there'll be no
retaliatory strike but we are going to
be on edge at least until next week when
those those lower level teams are
hammering out the details um the
principal negotiators are going to
reconvene next week and that's when
we'll really have an answer and do you
have an understanding of what those gaps
were that they they say this new
statement closes those remaining gaps do
you know what they
were well look there's a lot of secrecy
surrounding it um some of them are are
kind of obvious which is whether Hamas
can rearm um the Israelis are saying
they need to control the Philadelphia
quar which is the southern border of
Gaza along the lines with Egypt so that
they don't have to fight this fight
again in a year in three years in four
years they want it to be kind of one and
done um you know Hamas is asking for a
permanent ceasefire Israel is interested
more in a pause I say it's all language
because you know they're at permanent
War these two parties and so a real
ceasefire is not even realistic a
permanent peace well and there's a
conflict at the top of the Israeli
government isn't there in in terms of
you have these disagreements within the
team at the top we've got we've had yav
Galant the defense minister saying
certain things about criticizing this
this aim of total Victory as being
nonsense and then Benjamin Netanyahu
saying that that is what he's after you
know total Victory um it's so
complicated isn't in terms of of of that
side of things the political situation
at the top in
Israel well nothing quite focuses the
mind like a gun at your your head and a
gun is at netanyahu's head right now the
only way that Iran and Hezbollah can
save face right the Western Nations have
said to them Stand Down in terms of
retaliation for those twin
assassinations the only way though that
they can save face is is if they can say
they forced netanyahu's hand and there's
now a ceasefire I have confidence I
guess what gives me hope is actually the
people of the region Israel as you all
know is a rockus democracy it's you know
from the right to the left they don't
hold out their opinions they were
standing there with megaphones as the
party uh negotiating team departed for
Doha saying don't come home unless you
bring the hostages the same can be said
of the Lebanese people they can still
taste the dust from the rubble of 2006
when Israel went to war with Hezbollah
they don't want to see their economy and
their infrastructure decimated and in
Iran they just elected what they
considered to be a moderate president
who was interested in in improving
relations with the West so they're
listening to their people across the
region we'll get that ceasefire what do
you think though that Benjamin Netanyahu
is going to accept uh this this deal I
mean do you think that that that
influence will
work well watch the meeting on Monday
with secretary blinkin um you know our
defense secretary uh Austin has been in
close contact with Galant we know that
that's a very smooth working
relationship it's been harder for
secretary blinkin he's got to navigate
the internal politics let's see the
looks on their faces when they come out
of the meeting on Monday and don't
forget that the Democrat National
Convention is also starting on Monday
there's a lot of pressure on this
Administration and to bring it to a
peaceful conclusion part of it is you
know electoral politics it's an ugly
kind of optics for there to be people
demonstrating outside of their own
convention from their own actual
supporters yeah okay thank you so much
for talking to us I really appreciate
your time that's Laura blo and felt them
and least analy thank you